# Robot Arm

Project for handling a 4DOF (4R) robot arm with adjustable geometry and automatic generation for URDF/XRDF, integration into ROS2, and motion control based on Analog Devices TMCM-BB4 with CANopen TMCM-1637.  The code is structured in two areas:
- standalone apps, which are portable among Linux, embedded Linux, and Windows
- ROS2 packages

## Standalone apps

***RobotArmKinematic***
- interactive geometry adjustment for all links (base, column, upper arm, lower arm, and end-effector);
- setting of revolute angle limits for all joints (base, shoulder, elbow, and wrist);
- based on the complete derivation of Denavit-Hartenberg parameters;
- direct/forward kinematic mode;
- inverse kinematic (IK) mode.  Due to the usage of analytical solvers only, there are no convergence and iterations errors, and also no timeouts.  Many existing IK solvers fail in 4R cases due to their optimization for 6DOF and above, relying on particular configurations which are not possible with only 4DOF.  One ROS2 package is providing this IK solver's integration into MoveIt2 and Nvidia Isaac Sim.
- automatic generation of URDF files, required for ROS2;
- automatic generation of XRDF files, required if using Nvidia Isaac Sim with cuMotion.

***TmcmBb4***
- basic operation and parameters setting for Analog Devices [TMCM-BB4](https://www.analog.com/en/products/tmcm-bb.html);
- it uses four [TMCM-1637](https://www.analog.com/en/products/tmcm-1637.html) CANopen modules for [BLDC motors](https://www.analog.com/en/products/qbl4208.html) control;
- it can use either SocketCAN or dedicated CAN adapters;
- intuitive UI for individual motor control, changing the operating mode, rotational speed, target position, and starting/stopping the operation;
- real-time view of relevant status and control words for each motion controller;

***CanBusTest***
- application for sending and receiving CANopen frames;
- useful for validating CAN adapters and communication chains at high bitrates;
- the standard scenario requires two terminals, each one needs to have its own CAN adapter;
- operation in either Tx or Rx mode;
- loopback support, e.g. for Nvidia Jetson families;
- adjustable number of frames per test;


## ROS2 packages
The content `./ROS_WS/src` needs to be copied to the corresponding sources folder of your ROS2 workspace.   If `$ROS_WS` is the environment variable for the ROS2 workspace, the new binaries will be created with

    cd $ROS_WS
    source ./install/setup.bash
    colcon build

In the following, it is assumed that all required ROS2 packages are installed, terminals are in the root workspace folder, and new content has been sourced:

    cd $ROS_WS
    source ./install/setup.bash

All following packages have been tested in *Humble* and *Jazzy*.

***adi_robotarm***
-
Package for visualizing and checking the URDF file generated by the standalone ***RobotArmKinematic*** app.  
Open a terminal and run:

    ros2 launch adi_robotarm display.launch.py model:=urdf/adi_robotarm.urdf

The expected result is RViz showing the robot arm, with a joint state publisher window that allows changing the angles within predefined limits. Besides rotation and zooming, the scene allows also checking anti-collision settings.  There is no kinematic involved at this stage.

***adi_4dof_ik***
-
Package for the inverse kinematic solver of a 4DOF (4R) robot arm.  Its mathematical part is identical with the one from ***RobotArmKinematic***. The standalone code is integrated in ROS2 through the KDL (Kinematics and Dynamics Library) wrapper from MoveIt2.  The generated solution consists of a set of joint angles, selected so that the cost function for moving from current to target position is best, compared to all other computed sets.

***adi_robotarm_moveit_config***
-
Package for binding the generated URDF with the custom 4DOF IK solver, in a self-consistent manner.  
Open a terminal and run:

    ros2 launch adi_robotarm_moveit_config demo.launch.py

The expected result is that RViz opens a scene where the motion planning and execution can be done with the help of an interactive marker (cyan sphere around last joint).  The messages and solutions of the IK solver are listed in the same terminal.

***adi_4dof_endeffector_xyz***
-
Substitutes the robot arm end-effector target position, typically sent by a depth cam, so that the IK solver can be tested with any desired values, in terminal only. Focus is on the xyz position for the tip of the end-effector, and not on its orientation.  This package is not mandatory for the ROS2 motion control of the robot arm, and it should be considered only as an intermediary aid.
Open a first terminal and run:

    ros2 launch adi_robotarm_moveit_config demo.launch.py

In a second terminal run:

    ros2 run adi_4dof_endeffector_xyz endeffector_listener

Move the interactive marker in RViz, and from second terminal copy to clipboard the `client_id` string, which has a format like   `/interactive_marker_display_###############`  (the termination number is unique per RViz session).
In a third terminal run:

    ros2 run adi_4dof_endeffector_xyz endeffector_xyz <client_id> x y z

where the x, y, and z values are in meters.  IK solver messages are shown in the first terminal for each set of new xyz values.

***adi_tmcm_bb4***
-
Main motion control package for the TMCM-BB4 board, using four CANopen TMCM-1637 and BLDC motors. 
Open a first terminal and run:

    ros2 launch adi_robotarm_moveit_config demo.launch.py

Open a second terminal and run:

    ros2 run adi_tmcm_bb4 tmcm_bb4_canopen
    
While planning and executing the robot arm motion in RViz, watch the BLDC motors spinning and stopping, as a function of action goals changing between executing and succeeded.  Target joint angles and status messages are shown in the second terminal.
